# Data Privacy Violations with Period Tracking Apps

This assignment is a response to two articles with differing viewpoints on the data privacy issue of women's health data, specifically the topic of period-tracking apps.

## Article 1

The New York Times article [Your App Knows You Got Your Period. Guess Who It Told?](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/28/us/period-apps-health-technology-women-privacy.html?searchResultPosition=3) is both weary and appreciative of period tracking apps. As an avid user of multiple so-called FemTech apps, including two of the period tracking apps mentioned in this article, I know the great benefits that they can provide. They are convenient to use, they take the mystery out of keeping track of my cycle, and they even let me know when some of the symptoms that I have inputted should have some further examination. I have been using these apps for many years now with a notification going off on my phone each month like clockwork to alert me that its that time of the month. What I didn't know, was how I was misled by data-sharing policies and the privacy violations that were committed by one of these apps, Flo. I am all for sharing data for the purpose of scientific advancement if I am alerted to the fact that my data will be used in this way. I am not okay with my personal health information being used so that Google and Facebook know what type of contraception I use, what symptoms I experience, and what products they can target towards me in their advertisements. This crosses a line, and is especially insidious when the app claims not to follow these practices and does not mention it in their terms and conditions.

This process of exploiting women and taking data or even parts of their body from them without permission has been a part of medical research's history. From Henrietta Lacks having cancer cells taken from her body and used without her family's knowledge, to this recent breach of privacy with Flo, there is good reason for women not to trust the medical field and the tools that are out there such as these period apps. This is an issue that is devastating, as the features that these apps provide are very helpful and women are already at a loss when it comes to being presented with knowledge about how to care for and understand their bodies. There is a need for accountability with these period tracking apps to be honest with the people who use them and to let users select if they would allow for their data to be used for scientific medical research purposes. As this article mentions, people are excited about their data being used to push science forward, but people do not want their data going to companies such as Google and Facebook to be used for advertisement purposes. 

## Article 2

The CNET article [How period-tracking apps like Clue can help you understand your body better](https://www.cnet.com/health/how-period-tracking-apps-like-clue-can-help-you-understand-your-body-better/) takes a more positive-points only look at the idea of period-tracking apps. It focuses specifically on the app Clue, which in comparison to the app Flo mentioned in the previous article does claim to have stronger privacy rules for its platform and data sharing. Right from the beginning of this article you learn about all of the wonderful benefits of tracking your period and how eye-opening it can be to track the patterns of what your body experiences. If you hadn't tried out period tracking apps at this point, you probably would be convinced of the benefits that they provide. If you are cautious about data privacy, you would probably have some questions that you feel weren't answered by this article which only simply states that you "want to read the terms of service or privacy policy to understand what happens to your information." 

What this article does spend some time on are the benefits that your data can provide to research efforts. It speaks on how Clue has partnered with different research institutions and companies to contribute more to women's medical research and about various studies that are being backed by the data from Clue. While you read so much about how much good your data can do, you don't read enough about how to know if you have any privacy rights with your data or if your data is also going to any other companies. This article could definitely be more data conscious and provide more insight to the reader as to what happens with the information that they input into the apps.